# **TABB Private Sale** 

- TABB: Token for Administering the BRE Blockchain 
- BRE: Basic Renewable Energy

## **Sale details**

1. The private sale will attempt to raise USD 100,000,000 by selling 200,000,000 TABB on a first come first serve basis. 
2. The price of TABB will increase as a function of the total number sold. 
3. There will be no fixed time limit for the private sale to end. The private sale will end when either all the TABB allocated for private sale have been bought or when TABB is made available for purchase by the general public, either through a public sale event or public exchange listing.
4. For the sake of simplicity, the TABB price curve will be incrementally ascending, like a staircase, with price increments of USD 0.001 per increment. 
5. There will be 1000 price increments on the curve. 
6. Each price increment will be for tranches of 200,000 TABB.
7. TABB will be sold in multiples of 10. This is to accommodate the needs of the vesting schedule described below.
8. The average price will be USD 0.5 per TABB and the starting price is USD 0.001 per TABB and the maximum price will be USD 1 per TABB.
9. The target exchange listing price will be twice the price of the last TABB to be purchased in the private sale.
10. The private sale prices for TABB represent a considerable price discount compared to the public exchange launch price.
11. The target public exchange listing date will be in the first half of 2025.

The [**Private Sale Tranches**](https://tabbre.com/documents/investors/privateSale/TABB_Private_SaleModel_20240905-PrivateSaleVestingPeriods.pdf) spreadsheet lists all the sales tranche ranges and prices.

## **TABB Vesting**

The public exchange listing launch price for TABB will be higher than the private sale price of TABB. Because of this, there is a risk that the price of TABB will collapse as a result of private sale holders of TABB flooding the market as they attempt to take a profit by selling their private sale purchased TABB.

To counter this risk, TABB bought in the private sale will be vested for a period of time. 

The length of the vesting period will be inversely proportional to the cost of the TABB purchased in the private sale. The lower the price paid for TABB the longer the vesting period.

Because long vesting periods can act as a sales deterrent, vested TABB will be unlocked in 10 batches spread evenly over the vesting period. The vesting batches will be numbered 1 to 10; this is the vesting batch number (VBN).

The algorithm for calculating vesting unlock times is described below:

1. The TABB sale tranches are indexed in descending order, from 1000 for the first and lowest priced tranche to an index of 1 for the last and highest priced tranche of TABB.
2. The tranche index number (TIN) is used to determine the number of hours tokens will be locked up for. This is the TABB vesting duration. 
3. The TABB vesting duration will commence from the start date of TABB’s first public exchange listing. 
4. The vesting duration, in hours, shall be calculated as the TIN multiplied by the vesting batch number (VBN) multiplied by 1.2.
5. The TABB vesting duration will be calculated in hours and rounded, either up or down, to the nearest 24 hour day.

Here are three examples:

- For TABB bought from the first tranche, TIN 1000, the vesting durations will be: 1200, 2400, 3600, 4800, 6000, 7200, 8400, 9600, 10800, 12000 hours or 50, 100, 150, 200, 250, 300, 350, 400, 450, 500 days.
- For TABB bought from the 200th tranche, TIN 800, the vesting durations will be: 960, 1920, 2400, 3840, 4800, 5760, 6720, 7680, 8640, 9600 hours or 40, 80, 120, 200, 240, 280, 320, 360, 400 days.
- For TABB purchased from the 901st tranche, towards the end of the private sale, will have TIN 99. The first vesting batch release time will be 99 x 1 x 1.2 hours = 118.8 hours, divided by 24 to give 4.95 days. 
  - This will be rounded to the nearest 24 hour day: giving 5 days. 
  - This means that 10% of the TABB bought from tranche 901 will be available for sale on the 5th day after the start of public exchange trading.

This mechanism is shown in the [**Private Sale Vesting Periods**](https://tabbre.com/documents/investors/privateSale/TABB_Private_SaleModel_20240905-PrivateSaleVestingPeriods.pdf) spreadsheet. 

# **Technical Arrangements for the Private Sale**

## **Simple Agreement for Tokens (SAFT)**

The TABB private sale will be conducted before the TabbreChain network exists. To expedite the start of the sale, the sale will be conducted using SAFT contracts. These contracts will be generated by a purpose built SAFT system that will be integrated with the tabbre.com website. The SAFT’s will record the quantity of TABB purchased, the vesting restrictions for the TABB and the purchase price(s) paid for the TABB.

## **Semi Fungible Tokens (SFT)**

Once the TabbreChain network is established an ERC1155 style contract will be deployed to express semi fungible tokens that encode the quantity of TABB purchased and the associated vesting restrictions. This is described in the following sections.

### **Vesting TABB, TABB1155**

The on-chain record of private sale purchases will be made using an ERC1155 smart contract called “VestedTABB”. 

The ERC1155 standard contract allows for the expression of semi fungible tokens, SFTs. 

This capability will be used to create SFTs for every combination of TABB sale tranche and vesting batch that has been sold during the private sale. 

The Vested TABB SFTs will be identified by a decimal integer value derived from the TIN and VBN: The TIN will be multiplied by 1000 and then added to the VBN. Each tranche will therefore be represented by 10 SFTs.

Here two examples:

1. TABB bought from the 200th tranche, have TIN 800 and will be represented by ERC1155 SFTs: 	800001, 800002 .. 800010
2. TABB bought from the 901st tranche, have TIN 99 and will be represented by ERC1155 SFTs: 	 99001, 99002 .. 99010

ERC1155 vested TABB expressed as SFTs is referred to as TABB1155

### **Releasing vested TABB, TABB1155**

To retrieve the vested TABB, the TABB1155 are transferred to the “TABBVestingRelease” contract. 

On receipt of the TABB1155, the TABBVestingRelease contract will check that the TABB1155 is out of its vesting period, and if so, will transfer the corresponding amount of native TABB to the sender of the TABB1155. 

The TABBVestingRelease contract will then burn the TABB1155. 

If the TABB1155 is NOT out of its vesting period, then the transfer of the TABB1155 will be rejected.

# **Compliance**

For reasons of expediency and to avoid falling foul of crypto regulations the private sale will issue SAFTs and SFTs. 

Some of the funds we raise will be used to create a regulatory compliant model for the issuance of public blockchain hosted tokens.

# **Use of funds**

## **Phase 1: Concept Stage Now - Q1/25** 

### **Budget: < US$ 10 M**

- Validate models, strategy, white papers
- Recruit team
- Establish the Tabbre Foundation
- Achieve full UK/EU/US Regulatory compliance for TABB/BRE
- Create TabbreChain provisional network
- List TABB/BRE on public exchanges

## **Phase 2: Initial Development - 12 months target duration** 

### **Budget: < US$ 100M**

- Solar farm physical proof of concept 
- Launch production funding round
- Develop the TabbreChain Net
- Complete minimum viable solar farm
- Prototype raft & harvester manufacturing plants 

## **Phase 3: Early Production System - 18 months target duration** 

### **Budget: US$ 300M - US$ 500M**

- Establish decentralized governance
- Establish BRE Monetary Authority DAO 
- Complete production funding round
- Complete commercial hydrogen production system (H2)
- Pilot ammonia (NH3) production 
- Commence energy sales in BRE

## **Phase 4: Gigawatt Scale - 24 months target duration** 

### **Budget: US$ 2 bn - US$ 3 bn**

Complete gigawatt funding round

Scale up manufacturing plant 

Build out gigawatt scale production (H2 & NH3) 

Pilot methane production

Establish BRE debt market

## **Phase 5: Multi-Gigawatt Scale - Multi-year target duration**

### **Budget: US$ Multi billion**

- Complete multi-gigawatt funding round
- Scale up manufacturing plant 
- Build out multi-gigawatt scale production (H2 & NH3) 
- Commence full methane production

## **Phase 6: Terawatt Scale - 2030s** 

### **Budget: US$ Multi trillion**

- Scale up to multi-terawatt capacity
- Commence TABB buy and burn
- Initiate Global Universal Basic Income (GUBI) 